# NBA-Fantasy-Basketball-Optimizer
Created a RandomForestRegression model that was trained on over 50 years of NBA player data and predicted future metrics for current players, then found the optimized fantasy league lineup given a variety of constraints. The project abstract can be found below.

Sports gambling has been growing increasingly prevalent over the past decade and shows no sign of slowing down soon. Nearly 63 million people across the USA and Canada participated in a fantasy sports league last year. Within the sports industry, and more specifically, the sports gambling industry, there is an incredible amount of data available to analyze to give one a potential edge. This project, therefore, aims to use said data to create a hypertuned RandomForestRegression model that is trained on past NBA players’ metrics and how they progressed through successive seasons, and can predict current players’ performances in the upcoming season with a certain level of accuracy. The model utilized ten different datasets and was trained on both inactive and active NBA players from 1974 to 2024, and then was used to predict metrics for the 2025 season. The model will then find the optimized ten-player lineup that will maximize fantasy basketball points, while following certain constraints. While the optimization model will be customizable, it will follow the standard NBA Fantasy rules, including lineup quantity, salary cap, and given point system, as a default. The model will input ten different data files encompassing over 50 years of NBA data and return the ten-person optimized fantasy team lineup.

The raw code for this project ('fantasy_basketball_optimizer.py'), the final report ('final_report.pdf'), as well as a descriptive poster of the project ('fantasy_basketball_optimizer_poster.pdf') is uploaded.
